# My bachelor thesis: Exploring Performance of B-Tree Configurations Using Machine Learning Techniques

# Structure

This project is organized into several main directories:

- `code`: This directory contains all the source code for the project. Data generating files are here aswell. It is further divided into subdirectories, each of which corresponds to a different part of the project. :
  - `01_preprocess`: Contains notebooks for preprocessing data. See [`preprocess.ipynb`](code/01_preprocess/preprocess.ipynb) and [`preprocess_ps.ipynb`](code/01_preprocess/preprocess_ps.ipynb) for more details.
  - `02_analyze`: Contains code for analyzing the preprocessed data. Correlation and other exploration is done here.
  - `03_CNN`: Unused. Initial experimatation for training a CNN using tensorflow. At the end not used for thesis.
  - `04_classifiers`: Contains various classifiers and the XAI algorithms run on selected models.
  - `05_regressors`: Contains various regressors and the XAI algorithms run on selected models.
  - `06_XAI`: Unused. Initial experimentation of XAI algorithms was done here.
  - `07_leaf_size`: Unused. Data exploration of the old pattern recognition dataset was done here.
  - `08_pattern_recognition`: Contains the pattern recognition algorithms. The only relevant file is [`apriori_small.ipynb`](code/08_pattern_recognition/apriori_small.ipynb)
- `output`: This directory is used to store output files generated by `code/generate_data.py`.
- `latex`: Contains the LaTeX code for the thesis. See the [`README.md`](latex/README.md) in this directory for more details and references to original author.
- [`Bachelor_Thesis_final.pdf`](Bachelor_Thesis_final.pdf): Is the final thesis in pdf format.

# Setup

Make sure to have python and poetry installed:

poetry install

poetry run python code/generate_data.py

I use VS Code for jupyter notebooks.

# Notes

The btree-binaries, the urls-data and outputs are hidden, since they are too big.

Some images are not published outside the pdf, due to copyright concerns.
